HOME IS NOT ONLY A BUTTON

Being aware of how technology is shaping our lives it wouldn’t be strange that we would forget what is behind the words that inspire the name of several technological nomenclature.
 
The titles point to the differences that could occur to our current reality, or better the one few generations before, and to the constantly swapping to augmented, expanded, virtual, digital, memory, senses, identities and again “reality” that we are exponentially acquiring. When this new digital real will override the way some things were conceived as normal, basic or insignificant, perhaps no longer we would have a hint of what we had left behind.

The media we generate is a reflection on what are the desires we want to become true. Due to the fact that we constantly are exposed to conceive the people and our context through the prism of the digital, where not only it gets altered but also decontextualize, the fundamental matter of the targets we pursue get also distorted and misunderstood. 

The other effect that commonly occur is the beautification of everything through commonly raising the expectations and commonly forcing a situation to raise the commodities to fulfill the gap of the disappointment, of course in a consumerist manner, but not only about material things, but everyday more, seeing people as profile images, having relations as transactions and living as a virtual reality. 

What make a place a more than just a space, is perhaps also virtual, some information invisible attached to each spot, is on the mind but not on the pictures, the same way we look at the day to day captures taken by inhabitants. Pictures that are not only of beautiful things but mostly pictures reporting, revealing the underlaying of the superficial materiality of the places, the small things that get out of the frame, disrupting noises for a good camera shot, that mostly is the output of the common use apart from its predicted one. 

What is about to be left from common living if the interactions on the streets are not made on the streets but in the digital world. What is about to be left once that the context for our daily life has disappeared, no longer material, only digital.

The project proposed focus in creating an archive in the manner of a participative documentary, a platform where everybody can take a part in showing what makes us call home home, and other euphemisms that are based on questioning likes, sincere smiles, and the simplistic expressions hidden in the streets, squares, parks and no showcase places. 
Anybody can take a picture, a sound, a video, a drawing, a comment, and send it to this archive, based on the location put together all the material and then document a place, to make small history book, made by the community of people. Non filtered, not sorted out, a local internet of the people and its places. 




